# 9.16

## Excercise

### part1

How many subsections is the “Methods” part divided into this paper? 
What does each subsections focus on?

***what subsections can be?
Eligibility criteria;recruitment;Study design;
Statistical analysis***

Answer Example: The method section of the paper is divided into 5 subsections, (e.i, eligibility criteria, recruitment....?)
Answer Example: In the recruitment section the authors describe how and where they recruited participants for their study.

***Enjoy   these   examples   inspired   by   Anguished   English   (Lederer,   1987).   Then 
rewrite  the  sentences  to  correct  the  errors  a  grammar  checker  would  miss.***
1. Migraines  strike  twice  as  many  women  as  do  men.
2. Wanted:  Worker  to  take  care  of  cow  that  does  not  smoke  or  drink.
3. As   a   baboon   who   grew   up   wild   in   the   jungle,   I   realized   that   Wiki   had 
special  nutritional  needs.
4. The patient was referred to a psychiatrist with a severe emotional problem.
5. In   the   photograph,   veterinarian   Joe   Mobbs   hoists   a   cow   injured   while 
giving  birth  to  its  feet.
6. About  two  years  ago,  a  wart  appeared  on  his  left  hand,  which  he  wanted 
removed.
7. People  who  use  birth  control  methods  that  smoke  are  in  danger  of  having 
mentally  disabled  children.
8. The woman wants to have the dog’s tail operated on again, and if it doesn’t 
heal  this  time,  she’ll  have  to  be  euthanized.

### part2

***1. What are some general recommendations about the writing style in scientific articles?***
Every time first write a draft (Outline) and then work on wording!!!

- The simplest writing style is the best
- The clarity of a statement is more important than its brevity
- Avoid unnecessary jargon
- Consider the use of a dictation software (quillbot/grammarly)
- Give the complete draft of you work to a layperson with good language skills for proof-reading

**SUGGESTED ANSWER:**
When writing scientific articles,adopting the simplest style is recommended.The clarity of a statement is more important than its brevity,therefore unnecessary jargon and verblage should be avoided.

***2. Are there any recommendations with regard to the length of the sentences and paragraphs in scientific articles? Explain***
Length of sentences/paragraphs
Optimal length of sentences:
- Rule of thumb: 15-20 words
- Sentences <12 words: expand
- No more than 40 words/sentence!

Optimal length of paragraph:
- Ca. 150 words are ideal for scientific articles
- Commonly not less than 50 words/paragraph

**SUGGESTED ANSWER:**
Sentences should be clear and concise.They should not exceed 40 words or be less than 12.Ideally,a sentence should be comprised of around 20 words.Likewise,paragraphs in scientific articles should consist of 150 words and not less than 50.

***3. What are some suggestions regarding abbreviations and acronyms in scientific articles?***
Abbreviate correctly
- **Use abbreviations sparse and consistently**
– They should be a help for the readers*
– Use official abbreviations (e.g. "DIU" instead of "Dresd. 
Intern. Universi.")
- **Define abbreviations and acronyms at their first appearance** (e.g. "The American Chiropractic
Association (ACA) just published new guidelines. You can gain access via the ACA website.")

**SUGGESTED ANSWER:**
Abbreviations should be used consistently thoughout the text.Both abbreviations and acronyms should be explain at their first appearance.

***4. How should the author deal with sensitive issues or subjects in scientific writing?***
**Emphasize only differences which are relevant**
<font color=red>Be careful when referencing groups:</font>
– "The old", "The disabled", "The abnormal" 
– "The sick were, when compared to the normal, …"
– "Stroke victims, who are tied to a wheelchair…" better: "People with stroke who use a wheelchair"
<font color=red>Gender-sensitive language:</font>
– https://www.un.org/en/gender-inclusive-language/guidelines.shtml
<font color=red>Be careful with gender-neutral neologisms</font>
– E.g. "peoplekind" instead of "mankind"
– https://www.theguardian.com/world/2018/feb/07/justin-trudeau_x0002_tells-woman-to-say-peoplekind-not-mankind

**SUGGESTED ANSWER:**
When referring to sensitive subjects the author should be careful about his language use so as to always display inclusiveness and respect.The author should also make use of gender sensitive language so as to avoid words or expressions that promote prejudices and stereotypes.

### part3

***1. What is an introduction to a scientific paper and how would you write it?***
**SUGGESTED ANSWER:**
The introduction lays the foundation of biomedical writing and is the first portion of an article according to the IMRAD pattern.A scientific paper should have an introduction in form of an inverted pyramid.The writer should start with the general information about the topic and subsequently narrow it down to the specific topic-related introduction.Steps taken while writing include stating the research problem and reviewing prior studies so as to identify gaps in the literature.The significance of the study should then be stated and readers should be informed about the purpose of the study.

My answer:The introduction of a scientific paper would be the opening section. It usually include five elements:state the research problem,review studies that have addressed the problem,indicate the deficiencies in the prior studies,advance the significance of present study,state the purpose statement.

***2. Are previous studies of the literature mentioned in the introduction section?How?***
**SUGGESTED ANSWER:**
Yes,they are.Prior studies are often mentioned in the introduction.Usually the authors use existing literature or research to motivate a study and advance the significance of their own paper.

***3. How would you define the method section of a research article and how would you write it?(100 words)***
**SUGGESTED ANSWER:**
 The method section of a research should describe what was done to answer the research question.This section may be called in different ways,including Materials and/or Methods,Experimental Design, Protocol, and Procedure and so on. Since this section includes an explanation of the procedures used to conduct the experiment,it is also divided into titled subsections. To have a successful method section,it is important to include the right amount of detail and to start in chronological order so as to direct the reader the big picture before plunging into a myriad of details.